---
layout: post
title:  "Paper Summary: The Multiscale Laplacian Graph Kernel 2 - Related Work"
---
There are different types of graph kernels in literature such as **random walk**, **shortest path** and **Fourier transform** kernels. However, most of these methods either purely local or purely spectral:
- Any method based on *subgraph counting* (triangles, squares) is local.
- Most random walk kernels are spectral or can be reduced to a spectral form involving the eigenvalues or a function of eigenvalues of its two input graphs.

Since both local and global patterns of a graph can be important in a graph pattern recognition task, the authors of this paper aim to design a graph kernel that is sensitive to patterns in different levels of granularity (from purely local to purely global). In literature there are two methods that work in a multiscale fashion:
- [Weisfeiler-Lehman kernel:](http://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume12/shervashidze11a/shervashidze11a.pdf) Message passing and hashing to build local summaries and pass it to upper level of hierarchy
- [Propagation kernel:](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10994-015-5517-9) Observes the label distribution in universal level, uses [locality sensitive hashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locality-sensitive_hashing) to bin the label distributions into feature vectors.

A recent work that is able to compete with the state-of-the-art is [structure2vec](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v48/daib16.pdf). structure2vec is a graph embedding method that uses inner products as kernels.

The authors of this paper propose the *Multiscale Graph Kernel (MLG kernel)* and believe it is the first method that can truly compare graphs in multiple levels of granularity simultaneously. MLG kernel is recursively defined on a modified version (*Feture Space Laplacian - FLG*) of the well known *Laplacian Graph Kernel*. Simply, MLG kernel uses the recursive property of the FLG kernel to build a hierarchical set of subgraph kernels. Therefore a higher-level kernel is generated by its lover-level counterparts, letting the method to both propagate information from bottom up fashion and to capture the patterns in the current level of hierarchy.

**References**  
[Kondor, R. and Pan, H., 2016. The multiscale laplacian graph kernel. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (pp. 2990-2998).](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/6135-the-multiscale-laplacian-graph-kernel.pdf)
